Alright! In this video, we are gonna
take a look at customizing Swagger a
little bit further. There's a lot of
options that we can utilize for
customization. Here, we're gonna look
at doing some customization of the
Customer Controller. So, you can see right
now, if I come in here and show it, you
can see that, it's doing a lot of
reflection for us. So, you can see here,
like the CustomerDTO string, optional
but not a lot of description there. This
is what it can reflect from our code, so
that it's doing reflection to build up
this based on the Java object model
underneath. But, we can make it a little
bit more friendly. I'm gonna show
you some of the options that we have
here. So let's toggle over to IntelliJ,
and I've got the CustomerController up
here, so we'll be customizing that in
this video. I can come up here and
use the annotation @Api, and that's gonna want to import it all the Swagger.
So, I'm gonna change that name. We'll
give it quick bounce to Spring Boot.
I should install it developer tools for
this so it automatically restarts.
So we have almost back up and running.
Toggle over here. Take a quick look at
how this change. So, notice the customer-controller.
Now, we can see that, I've got that full
description, that This is my Customer
Controller. So, gives you some options. But
there's a number of other things that we
can do as well. Let's come over here
and we have the Api value annotation.
So, I'm saying this will get a list of
customers, and then, this also has a notes
property, that we can utilize.
So we can add in some notes about the
API,
and let's go ahead and restart now.
I'll show you. Show you those that take effect
here
into a refresh.
Now, we can see, there's that. This will
get a list of the customers, and if I
expand on that, we can see here are some
implementation notes right in the API
so it gives us some nice flexibility
there. And then also, we can do some
annotations on the model, as well. So,
let's come over here to the CustomerDTO
and we can say
@ApiModelProperty.
And it's not required by default, but
we can say, say required = true.
I'll show you how this changes. Because
what's happening is, when we come
over here to the post,
bring this up and see that the model,
let's use pure reflection there,
and everything's optional. And I'm gonna
add in some nodes on that. So, let's come
in and bounce Spring Boot. So I'm saying
this is firstname, required = true.
We should see that show up.
Come over here to model.
And here, you can see my note there and
this is a firstname.
I'm not seeing the required property.
So, no longer says optional see. So, not
very clear in the documentation. I
did set it required. So, let's try that
with lastname, as well.
I just want to see if that, so this is
required.
You can see that there's some other
ones here. I don't know what exactly what
all of these do. The most useful ones are,
obviously, the description, and whether or
not, it's allowed datatype that can be an
odd one, because we are doing reflection
there for datatype. So, I don't know how
much you would get use out of that. So,
let's go ahead and bounce Spring Boot.
I just wanna see that one property
change there.
The lastname is still showing up as
optional, unfortunately. So, some of the
values here can get a little
quirky.
I am running on Spring 5. I've
actually been talking to the author of
Spring Fox a little bit on GitHub, and
it's not been fully tested with Spring 5.
So, some of these quirks could be because
I'm using Spring 5 and they haven't
designed for Spring 5 release yet. So,
this is an area that's evolving.
Well, that is still showing up as
optional, unfortunately.
So, I'm not sure why that is coming up as
optional. It should not be but
we did get the description there.
Oh required.
That is my mistake there. So, let's just
get rid of that. So now, I know why it was
not showing up as optional. So, a little
mistake there in coding.
Now, let's take a look see that that
property does show up. Now, in testing,
what I was saying that, I was testing out
some of these other attributes that you
can use with the annotations, and I did
run into a couple quirks with it. So, and
I think that's probably because of
Spring 5. So now, we can see that the
optional is gone from lastname, like I
expect it to do so. Funny how things work
out a lot better, when you actually pay
attention to exactly what you're doing
it, rather than seeing wanting to see
that what you expect to see. So, this is
the Swagger annotations. A lot of
power here is as to what you can
set up and control. I highly recommend
checking out the documentation. And like
I said earlier, I was testing this out
with Spring 5. I had things working on
Spring 4. There's additional attributes
that you can set under Spring 4, they
were working. Under Spring 5, they are not.
They are working on another release of
the Spring Fox plug-in, so this is
December 2017, right now. 2.7 just came
out there, trying to get 2.8 out the
door. That is gonna be coming out
any day now, I believe. And then after
that, they are going to get on supporting
Spring 5. So, this plugin, is gonna
continue evolving. Remember, Spring 5, at
the time recording, is very new to the
market, and a lot of the projects that
depend on Spring are catching up to the
new release of Spring. So, it's gonna
take some time for the entire Spring
ecosystem to get all caught up.